README.md, before:


# XiuMusic
![](https://img.shields.io/badge/Toolkit-Flutter-blue.svg)  ![](https://img.shields.io/badge/Language-Dart-orange.svg)  ![](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-green)  ![](https://img.shields.io/badge/Process-Developing-blueviolet.svg)

Based on the personal NAS music player, Navidrome server development, theoretically supports Subsonic server

 🇨🇳[简体中文](README-cn.md) | 🇺🇸[English](README.md)

## Introduction

**Xiu** is [a music anchor](https://www.douyu.com/7884070) that I often watch recently. There is a word Xiu in her name, so she is called **XiuMusic**.

Recently, a lot of things have been set up on the NAS. Among them, the music server uses Navidrome, and the client has chosen a lot, but only [Sonixd](https://github.com/jeffvli/sonixd) feels good, but there is no mobile terminal, and There is a problem of the century, does not support lyrics ([issues](https://github.com/jeffvli/sonixd/issues/332) the author said that there is a big plan to leap to v1.0 and solve the problem of lyrics, and Some current repos support it, but I tried several times without success)

So I need an APP like this:

1. Support lyrics

2. Support fuzzy search (simplified and traditional, this is a big problem, for example, if you search for Jay Chou and Jay Chou)

3. Concise (listening to music is listening to music)

4. Unified style of desktop and mobile UI

With these four requirements, I decided to make an APP for myself

This is developed and debugged on the server environment of [Navidrome](https://www.navidrome.org/) based on the interface of [Subsonic API](http://www.subsonic.org/pages/api.jsp) , so in theory it supports Subsonic, Navidrome and Airsonic. If you want to play, you can download it and have a try. If the interface is the same, it should not be a big problem (most of the DIO requests are not wrong, it is recommended to eat when the network environment is good. Go back and make up for user interaction when you're done)

**Notice! ! !** The downloaded lyrics are saved in the database of the APP document. Currently, there is no export function. Play less and do not blame me for not being able to output lyrics.

[The v0.4 version of macOS has been released and can be used directly](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/xiu-music/id1667473545)

![](https://s2.loli.net/2023/01/10/3Wj8w7QfbZJ9N4y.jpg)

lock screen playback

![](https://s2.loli.net/2023/01/23/pWL4ia9mZCxuynG.jpg)

## Todo List 

### pages

- [x] Home
   - [x] Random Album, Most Played Songs, Recently Added Album...others are added as you like
  
- [x] now playing
   - [x] Now Playing Page, Frosted Glass
   - [x] Lyrics

- [x] Playlist
   - [x] playlist page
   - [x] Add, delete playlist; add, delete songs

- [x] favorite
   - [x] Favorite page, favorite songs, albums and artists
   - [x] Favorite and unfavorite songs and albums

- [x] search
   - [x] search page
   - [x] Simplified Chinese can search traditional Chinese songs

- [ ] Album
   - [x] album list
   - [x] Album Details
   - [ ] Filter by artist
  
- [x] singer
   - [x] list of singers
   - [x] Artist home page
   - [x] Album Details
  
- [ ] The genre is temporarily closed, it feels really useless
   - [x] page impressions
   - [ ] Jump to the corresponding album and song
  
- [ ] configure
   - [x] Server configuration: test, connect, save server and account information
   - [ ] Personalization: Don't think about it
   - [x] Multilingual: Made English, Chinese, Simplified Chinese and Traditional Chinese, but it was loaded according to the terminal configuration, and switching was also done, but it was not saved

- [x] Lyrics lookup
   - [x] Find the lyrics on Netease Cloud according to the artist and song title

### Base  

- [x] play
   - [x] Music playback, playback controls, mute, single loop
   - [x] playlist, loop all
   - [x] Mobile background playback and lock screen control

- [x] network
   - [x] Restful requests, server connections, etc.
   - [x] Catch lyrics through NetEase cloud API, the information of singer album should be done by the server, although it can be caught, but it is still not caught

- [x] database
   - [x] Create table, add, delete, modify, check, initialize

- [ ] User Experience Theoretical support for IOS/Android/macOS/Windows/Linux
   - [x] Debugged: macOS iOS Android
   - [ ] Not yet debugged: Windows/Linux should be fine in theory
   - [ ] Throw an error from the background to the foreground
   - [ ] desktop shortcut key
   - [ ] tab

- [x] Background tasks
   - [x] Set up a timer in the Main, and refresh the data from the Internet every 20 minutes (I think this time will be configurable and open later, and you can turn off adding and deleting songs for a long time, which is now turned off in the code dropped, in the main function)

![](https://s2.loli.net/2023/01/12/vMEGWZdzIblT9qx.jpg)

![](https://s2.loli.net/2023/01/10/BCPjVHlazr2mK1R.jpg)

------------------------------

## Quick start

1. Clone project

2. Delete ios and macos to regenerate

3. Execute `flutter create .` in the project directory

4. Execute `flutter packages get` in the project directory

#### MacOS/IOS

The following files are added
DebugProfile.entitlements
Release.entitlements

    <key>com.apple.security.network.client</key>
    <true/>

Turn on lock screen playback
#### IOS
Info.plist
```
<key>UIBackgroundModes</key>
	<array>
		<string>audio</string>
	</array>
```
AndroidManifest.xml

```
<manifest xmlns:tools="http://schemas.android.com/tools" ...>
  <!-- ADD THESE TWO PERMISSIONS -->
  <uses-permission android:name="android.permission.WAKE_LOCK"/>
  <uses-permission android:name="android.permission.FOREGROUND_SERVICE"/>
  
  <application ...>
    
    ...
    
    <!-- EDIT THE android:name ATTRIBUTE IN YOUR EXISTING "ACTIVITY" ELEMENT -->
    <activity android:name="com.ryanheise.audioservice.AudioServiceActivity" ...>
      ...
    </activity>
    
    <!-- ADD THIS "SERVICE" element -->
    <service android:name="com.ryanheise.audioservice.AudioService"
        android:foregroundServiceType="mediaPlayback"
        android:exported="true" tools:ignore="Instantiatable">
      <intent-filter>
        <action android:name="android.media.browse.MediaBrowserService" />
      </intent-filter>
    </service>

    <!-- ADD THIS "RECEIVER" element -->
    <receiver android:name="com.ryanheise.audioservice.MediaButtonReceiver"
        android:exported="true" tools:ignore="Instantiatable">
      <intent-filter>
        <action android:name="android.intent.action.MEDIA_BUTTON" />
      </intent-filter>
    </receiver> 
  </application>
</manifest>
```

#### Use the lyrics search function

You need to set the api of Netease Cloud. According to the instructions of setting [NeteaseCloudMusicApi](https://github.com/Binaryify/NeteaseCloudMusicApi) here, after configuring one on [vercel](https://vercel.com/), set the api The domain name can be used after it is saved in the set lyrics server.

![WechatIMG673](https://s2.loli.net/2023/01/18/GPbWiBRjT3LHl8K.png)

## Dependencies

- [sqflite: ^2.2.25](https://pub.flutter-io.cn/packages/sqflite) data persistence.
- [path: ^1.8.2 ](https://pub.flutter-io.cn/packages/path) Find the location for the database, and it can also be used for image caching, but base64 is still good.
- [just_audio: ^0.9.31](https://pub.dev/packages/just_audio) Music playback tool with 99% praise.
- [just_audio_background: ^0.0.1-beta.9](https://pub.dev/packages/just_audio_background) supports mobile background playback and lock screen control.
- [dio: ^4.0.6](https://pub.dev/packages/dio) and its simple Restful request tool.
- [crypto: ^3.0.2](https://pub.dev/packages/crypto) Used for encryption such as MD5.
- [window_manager: ^0.2.8](https://pub.dev/packages/crypto) It is used to limit the minimization of the form and hide the title bar.
- [flutter_staggered_grid_view: ^0.6.2](https://pub.dev/packages/flutter_staggered_grid_view) Realize waterfall flow, easy to use.
- [cached_network_image: ^3.2.3](https://pub.dev/packages/cached_network_image) implements image caching, easy to use.
- [flutter_lyric: ^2.0.4+6](https://pub.dev/packages/flutter_lyric) There is only one copy on the entire pub, which is easy to use.

Commit message:

Move initializing, refreshing db (20m) to the back

README.md, after:


# XiuMusic
![](https://img.shields.io/badge/Toolkit-Flutter-blue.svg)  ![](https://img.shields.io/badge/Language-Dart-orange.svg)  ![](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-green)  ![](https://img.shields.io/badge/Process-Developing-blueviolet.svg)

Based on the personal NAS music player, Navidrome server development, theoretically supports Subsonic server

 🇨🇳[简体中文](README-cn.md) | 🇺🇸[English](README.md)

## Introduction

**Xiu** is [a music anchor](https://www.douyu.com/7884070) that I often watch recently. There is a word Xiu in her name, so she is called **XiuMusic**.

Recently, a lot of things have been set up on the NAS. Among them, the music server uses Navidrome, and the client has chosen a lot, but only [Sonixd](https://github.com/jeffvli/sonixd) feels good, but there is no mobile terminal, and There is a problem of the century, does not support lyrics ([issues](https://github.com/jeffvli/sonixd/issues/332) the author said that there is a big plan to leap to v1.0 and solve the problem of lyrics, and Some current repos support it, but I tried several times without success)

So I need an APP like this:

1. Support lyrics

2. Support fuzzy search (simplified and traditional, this is a big problem, for example, if you search for 周杰伦 and 周杰倫)

3. Concise (listening to music is listening to music)

4. Unified style of desktop and mobile UI

With these four requirements, I decided to make an APP for myself

This is developed and debugged on the server environment of [Navidrome](https://www.navidrome.org/) based on the interface of [Subsonic API](http://www.subsonic.org/pages/api.jsp) , so in theory it supports Subsonic, Navidrome and Airsonic. If you want to play, you can download it and have a try. If the interface is the same, it should not be a big problem (most of the DIO requests are not wrong, it is recommended to eat when the network environment is good. Go back and make up for user interaction when you're done)

**Notice! ! !** The downloaded lyrics are saved in the database of the APP document. Currently, there is no export function. Play less and do not blame me for not being able to output lyrics.

[The v0.4 version of macOS has been released and can be used directly](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/xiu-music/id1667473545)

![](https://s2.loli.net/2023/01/10/3Wj8w7QfbZJ9N4y.jpg)

lock screen playback

![](https://s2.loli.net/2023/01/23/pWL4ia9mZCxuynG.jpg)

## Todo List 

### pages

- [x] Home
   - [x] Random Album, Most Played Songs, Recently Added Album...others are added as you like
  
- [x] now playing
   - [x] Now Playing Page, Frosted Glass
   - [x] Lyrics

- [x] Playlist
   - [x] playlist page
   - [x] Add, delete playlist; add, delete songs

- [x] favorite
   - [x] Favorite page, favorite songs, albums and artists
   - [x] Favorite and unfavorite songs and albums

- [x] search
   - [x] search page
   - [x] Simplified Chinese can search traditional Chinese songs

- [ ] Album
   - [x] album list
   - [x] Album Details
   - [ ] Filter by artist
  
- [x] singer
   - [x] list of singers
   - [x] Artist home page
   - [x] Album Details
  
- [ ] The genre is temporarily closed, it feels really useless
   - [x] page impressions
   - [ ] Jump to the corresponding album and song
  
- [ ] configure
   - [x] Server configuration: test, connect, save server and account information
   - [ ] Personalization: Don't think about it
   - [x] Multilingual: Made English, Chinese, Simplified Chinese and Traditional Chinese, but it was loaded according to the terminal configuration, and switching was also done, but it was not saved

- [x] Lyrics lookup
   - [x] Find the lyrics on Netease Cloud according to the artist and song title

### Base  

- [x] play
   - [x] Music playback, playback controls, mute, single loop
   - [x] playlist, loop all
   - [x] Mobile background playback and lock screen control

- [x] network
   - [x] Restful requests, server connections, etc.
   - [x] Catch lyrics through NetEase cloud API, the information of singer album should be done by the server, although it can be caught, but it is still not caught

- [x] database
   - [x] Create table, add, delete, modify, check, initialize

- [ ] User Experience Theoretical support for IOS/Android/macOS/Windows/Linux
   - [x] Debugged: macOS iOS Android
   - [ ] Not yet debugged: Windows/Linux should be fine in theory
   - [ ] Throw an error from the background to the foreground
   - [ ] desktop shortcut key
   - [ ] tab

- [x] Background tasks
   - [x] Set up a timer in the Main, and refresh the data from the Internet every 20 minutes (I think this time will be configurable and open later, and you can turn off adding and deleting songs for a long time, which is now turned off in the code dropped, in the main function)

![](https://s2.loli.net/2023/01/12/vMEGWZdzIblT9qx.jpg)

![](https://s2.loli.net/2023/01/10/BCPjVHlazr2mK1R.jpg)

------------------------------

## Quick start

1. Clone project

2. Delete ios and macos to regenerate

3. Execute `flutter create .` in the project directory

4. Execute `flutter packages get` in the project directory

#### MacOS/IOS

The following files are added
DebugProfile.entitlements
Release.entitlements

    <key>com.apple.security.network.client</key>
    <true/>

Turn on lock screen playback
#### IOS
Info.plist
```
<key>UIBackgroundModes</key>
	<array>
		<string>audio</string>
	</array>
```
AndroidManifest.xml

```
<manifest xmlns:tools="http://schemas.android.com/tools" ...>
  <!-- ADD THESE TWO PERMISSIONS -->
  <uses-permission android:name="android.permission.WAKE_LOCK"/>
  <uses-permission android:name="android.permission.FOREGROUND_SERVICE"/>
  
  <application ...>
    
    ...
    
    <!-- EDIT THE android:name ATTRIBUTE IN YOUR EXISTING "ACTIVITY" ELEMENT -->
    <activity android:name="com.ryanheise.audioservice.AudioServiceActivity" ...>
      ...
    </activity>
    
    <!-- ADD THIS "SERVICE" element -->
    <service android:name="com.ryanheise.audioservice.AudioService"
        android:foregroundServiceType="mediaPlayback"
        android:exported="true" tools:ignore="Instantiatable">
      <intent-filter>
        <action android:name="android.media.browse.MediaBrowserService" />
      </intent-filter>
    </service>

    <!-- ADD THIS "RECEIVER" element -->
    <receiver android:name="com.ryanheise.audioservice.MediaButtonReceiver"
        android:exported="true" tools:ignore="Instantiatable">
      <intent-filter>
        <action android:name="android.intent.action.MEDIA_BUTTON" />
      </intent-filter>
    </receiver> 
  </application>
</manifest>
```

#### Use the lyrics search function

You need to set the api of Netease Cloud. According to the instructions of setting [NeteaseCloudMusicApi](https://github.com/Binaryify/NeteaseCloudMusicApi) here, after configuring one on [vercel](https://vercel.com/), set the api The domain name can be used after it is saved in the set lyrics server.

![WechatIMG673](https://s2.loli.net/2023/01/18/GPbWiBRjT3LHl8K.png)

## Dependencies

- [sqflite: ^2.2.25](https://pub.flutter-io.cn/packages/sqflite) data persistence.
- [path: ^1.8.2 ](https://pub.flutter-io.cn/packages/path) Find the location for the database, and it can also be used for image caching, but base64 is still good.
- [just_audio: ^0.9.31](https://pub.dev/packages/just_audio) Music playback tool with 99% praise.
- [just_audio_background: ^0.0.1-beta.9](https://pub.dev/packages/just_audio_background) supports mobile background playback and lock screen control.
- [dio: ^4.0.6](https://pub.dev/packages/dio) and its simple Restful request tool.
- [crypto: ^3.0.2](https://pub.dev/packages/crypto) Used for encryption such as MD5.
- [window_manager: ^0.2.8](https://pub.dev/packages/crypto) It is used to limit the minimization of the form and hide the title bar.
- [flutter_staggered_grid_view: ^0.6.2](https://pub.dev/packages/flutter_staggered_grid_view) Realize waterfall flow, easy to use.
- [cached_network_image: ^3.2.3](https://pub.dev/packages/cached_network_image) implements image caching, easy to use.
- [flutter_lyric: ^2.0.4+6](https://pub.dev/packages/flutter_lyric) There is only one copy on the entire pub, which is easy to use.

v0.4.1
- Move the operations of initializing the database, forcing the database to refresh, and regularly refreshing the database (20 minutes) to the background
- The scheduled refresh database will judge whether it needs to be refreshed according to the number of songs and folders on the server (there is a problem here, when a person deletes the songs of the same album in the same folder, the scheduled refresh will not start , you need to manually force refresh)
- Tap the close button to minimize on MacOS
